of course none of these creatures are
alive today and there are no creatures
that are alive today that move in the
same way that the dinosaurs did we
simply don't have that skeletal
structure around anymore the first thing
we're going to do is to look at real
animals in the wild today how does their
way of life affect the way they move how
does the shape of their body affect
their movement and then we'll look at
the dinosaurs and look at their
environment and try and make the same
guesses it's a sort of primitive form of
motion capture area for the movement of
Diplodocus Mike Milne and his team of
animators took a close look at elephants
good girl with them was paleontologist
and sauropod expert Kent Stephens but
I'm really surprised about how little
lateral movement there is I had expected
a far wider side-to-side sway
I think the gait might be very similar
yes I don't have a problem with that I
have a problem with the fluidity of the
movement because it's a small creature
no because this is a far more
intelligent creature when you take a
sauropod that may be five or more times
heavier but the rain is about sighs my
fist I just don't see the the neural
processes they're operating to do that
beautiful dance that we're seeing with
that guy there so we can take the
movement of the limbs but not
necessarily the speed of them and the
fluidity with Riccio I think one of the
things that's really important is to see
how the weight gets pulled back I
noticed that as soon as she stopped she
locks her knees back at ya - and inlays
are very columnar
and that weight distribution stuff I
could imagine
armed with this sort of knowledge the
animators soon got the Diplodocus moving
one of the key things you can see in the
finished animation is that there are
always at least three feet on the ground
to distribute the giants weight but
others were more stubborn getting the
pterosaurs to fly had been relatively
straightforward making them walk was a
puzzle
this surprisingly is a pterosaur it's
very unusual because it's on the ground
this wings I've got to bend all the way
around so that it can walk it's very odd
it doesn't match anything in nature
today what we've had to parallel it as
is something like a an old man on
crutches works it just feels too fun
tomorrow it doesn't feel like anything
that would actually exist and walk like
this it's not imbalanced put a bit of
twist in the body make it look really
really struggling doing from that so
that yeah you got it
I'll set X that's good that's it you got
it yeah that's good yeah that's better
well he's finished and we're happy with
him we tried the parallel walk we tried
the hop all different types of moves but
we decided that it's alternate and back
leg forward leg back or the back leg or
the forward leg worked really well what
I did in the end because his front legs
are shorter I took gave him loads of
reach with his shoulders and his spine
which so he kind of Swagger's forward
like that which gives them extra reach
he needs to compensate for his short
front legs here's what we've come up
with for Lauren it's kind of flying
through the water with alternating
flippers it's a very efficient movement
which saves it energy because it's such
a big animal as the back ones go down
the front ones are pushed up by the
movement and then vice versa
one by one the statues were coming to
life
[Music]
in the process even the paleontologists
were learning a thing or two when
working with the animators and the
designers I was able to see my skeletal
reconstructions changed into something
more like a dynamic animal moving by
doing that I had to think very seriously
about the the dynamics of the joints the
way that the bones moved relative to one
another that's the critical difference
that these animation programs provide
for us and that brings the animals more
to life than I had appreciated first of
all
the filmmakers in making computer models
and physical models have been actually
teaching the paleontologists and things
they've been showing us what works and
what doesn't work and I've been
delighted to see that the information is
actually flowing in in both directions